# face-detection

This service uses Pillows and RetinaFace to detect faces in an image.

The API documentation is automatically generated by FastAPI using the OpenAPI standard. A user friendly interface provided by Swagger is available under the `/docs` route, where the endpoints of the service are described.

This simple service only has one route `/compute` that takes an image as input, which will be analyzed.

## Environment variables

All environment variables are described in the [`.env`](https://github.com/swiss-ai-center/core-engine/blob/main/services/face-detection/.env) file.

The environment variables can be overwritten during the CI/CD pipeline described in the [`face-detection.yml`](https://github.com/swiss-ai-center/core-engine/blob/main/.github/workflows/face-detection.yml) GitHub workflow file.

## Start the service locally with Python

In the `services/face-detection` directory, start the service with the following commands.

```sh
# Generate the virtual environment
python3 -m venv .venv

# Activate the virtual environment
source .venv/bin/activate

# Install the requirements
pip install \
    --requirement requirements.txt \
    --requirement requirements-all.txt
```

Start the application.

```sh
# Switch to the `src` directory
cd src

# Start the application
uvicorn --reload --port 8686 main:app
```

Access the service documentation on <http://localhost:8686/docs>.

## Run the tests with Python

For each module a test file is available to check the correct behavior of the code. The tests are run using the `pytest` library with code coverage check. To run the tests, use the following command inside the `src` folder:

```sh
pytest --cov-report term:skip-covered --cov-report term-missing --cov=. -s --cov-config=.coveragerc
```

## Start the service locally with minikube and the Docker image hosted on GitHub

Start the service with the following commands. This will start the service with the official Docker images that are hosted on GitHub.

In the `face-detection` directory, start the service with the following commands.

```sh
# Start the face-detection backend
kubectl apply \
    -f kubernetes/face-detection.config-map.yml \
    -f kubernetes/face-detection.stateful.yml \
    -f kubernetes/face-detection.service.yml
```

Create a tunnel to access the Kubernetes cluster from the local machine. The terminal in which the tunnel is created must stay open.

```sh
# Open a tunnel to the Kubernetes cluster
minikube tunnel --bind-address 127.0.0.1
```

Access the `face-detection` documentation on <http://localhost:8686/docs>.

Access the Core Engine documentation on <http://localhost:8080/docs> to validate the backend has been successfully registered to the Core Engine.

## Start the service locally with minikube and a local Docker image

**Note**: The service StatefulSet (`face-detection.stateful.yml` file) must be deleted and recreated every time a new Docker image is created.

Start the service with the following commands. This will start the service with the a local Docker image for the service.

In the `face-detection` directory, build the Docker image with the following commands.

```sh
# Access the Minikube's Docker environment
eval $(minikube docker-env)

# Build the Docker image
docker build -t ghcr.io/swiss-ai-center/face-detection:latest .

# Exit the Minikube's Docker environment
eval $(minikube docker-env -u)

# Edit the `kubernetes/face-detection.stateful.yml` file to use the local image by uncommented the line `imagePullPolicy`
#
# From
#
#        # imagePullPolicy: Never
#
# To
#
#        imagePullPolicy: Never
```

In the `face-detection` directory, start the service with the following commands.

```sh
# Start the face-detection backend
kubectl apply \
    -f kubernetes/face-detection.config-map.yml \
    -f kubernetes/face-detection.stateful.yml \
    -f kubernetes/face-detection.service.yml
```

Create a tunnel to access the Kubernetes cluster from the local machine. The terminal in which the tunnel is created must stay open.

```sh
# Open a tunnel to the Kubernetes cluster
minikube tunnel --bind-address 127.0.0.1
```

Access the `face-detection` documentation on <http://localhost:8686/docs>.

Access the Core Engine documentation on <http://localhost:8080/docs> to validate the backend has been successfully registered to the Core Engine.
